I see you're writing an app... Microsoft nudges AI Clippy-for-Code out the door, turns machine learning onto Word
IntelliCode kinda available, online text editor to suggest sentence rewrites 

Build Microsoft today announced various AI-related tools during its annual Build developer conference in Seattle.

Are you tired of your stubby fingers hitting the wrong keys when you code? Are you tired of pressing the delete key again and again? Are you tired of pesky spelling mistakes and buggy source? Well, perhaps Redmond's IntelliCode, first teased around this time last year, may just be what you need.

The machine-learning-backed software is, essentially, like an autocorrect or autofill tool for code in Visual Studio, and is now kinda generally available. As you type, it recommends code to use next in popup boxes to help you complete and format your source. Some people swear by it, some of us find this kind of hand-holding nauseating.

In any case, this whiz-bang IntelliCode supports the programming languages C++, C#, Python, JavaScript, Java, and TypeScript to varying degrees. Visual Studio 2019 Version 16.1's IntelliCode, for instance, can predict C# and XAML, and that support is now generally available; support for the other languages remains in preview. Yes, it's the usual fractured Redmond release approach.

Microsoft built the tool by training machine-learning models on source code scraped from more than 2,000 public GitHub repositories. To ensure that the training set is of a decent quality, the projects slurped had to have at least 100 stars from other programmers. Microsoft now owns GitHub, don't forget.


Microsoft reckons devs would like an AI Clippy to help them write code
READ MORE
If you’re a C# scribbler, however, there’s an extra feature for you to preview. IntelliCode can be tweaked to work with a custom model, and can recommend code that isn’t drawn from the public training data. Instead it can be based on your own code or domain specific library calls.

At the moment, the tool can only really carry out autocorrect-like functions. Microsoft hopes that it’ll expand to help developers to do other tasks like fixing bugs or helping you review your own code.

Here’s the link to IntelliCode for Python, JavaScript/TypeScript and Java, and here’s another link if you program in C#, C++, JavaScript/TypeScript, or XAML.

Also, there’s a similar tool called Ideas for Microsoft Word Online. Ideas also uses machine learning techniques to analyse language and offers suggestions on how best to rewrite sentences to improve grammar as you type.

Finally, Redmond announced it was crafting an end-to-end software package that can run AI code autonomously on real robots. It’s still early days, and the toolkit is currently a limited preview program. A few companies such as Sarcos and Toyota have employed the tool for their robots and forklifts. Toyota Looks to an Autonomous and Electric Future
ByVidi NenePublished on May 7, 2019
SHARE TWEET COMMENT
Toyota announced creation of a $100 million venture fund to invest in autonomous driving and robotic technology start-ups as automakers increasingly push into the self-driving market. Toyota AI Ventures, a Silicon Valley-based subsidiary of Toyota, plans to invest the said amount into early-stage startups that are developing “disruptive” technologies in those fields, the company said.

Jim Adler, managing director of Toyota AI Ventures, said in a statement, “Auto manufacturers must participate in the startup ecosystem to stay ahead of the rapid shift in the auto industry.” The company added that the fund is part of Toyota’s mission is a futuristic “discover what’s next” phase. Toyota’s AI venture fund has already invested in 19 different start-ups over the last two years, bringing its total funding commitment to autonomous driving technology to $200 million, the company further stated.

 Toyota AI Ventures looks for early-stage startups, across a range of industries, that are applying AI, data, and cloud technologies to tackle important problems and create new market opportunities. Existing investments include such diverse companies as:

Elementary Robotics – Developing robotics platforms to assist with automating everyday tasks
Intuition Robotics – Creating social companion technologies using cognitive AI
Joby Aviation – Pioneering an electric vertical takeoff and landing (eVTOL) passenger aircraft service
May Mobility> – Offering communities a Level 4 self-driving shuttle service
Sea Machines – Building autonomous control and navigation systems for the maritime industry
Dr. Gill Pratt, chief executive officer at the Toyota Research Institute, was quoted saying, “The growing interest in automated systems has created great opportunities to improve human lives using AI and next-generation mobility technology,” adding further that the fund will help “bridge the gap” between automakers and technology start-ups focused on autonomous transportation.

In April, Toyota and auto-parts supplier Denso said they would together invest $667 million into Uber’s self-driving vehicle unit. Toyota also committed to contributing an additional $300 million to Uber’s initiative into self-driving vehicles over the next three years. At the 2018 Consumer Electronics Show, Toyota also unveiled a self-driving concept food-delivery vehicle called the e-Pallette which was part of a partnership with Amazon to help explore ways to use self-driving cars for food delivery.

Automaker companies including Ford, BMW and Daimler are entering the autonomous vehicle market looking to innovate in self-driving vehicles. In April, Ford said it aims to have 100 self-driving vehicles on the road by the end of 2019. Ford announced in March that it is building a new factory in Michigan to focus on its self-driving vehicle efforts. BMW and Daimler also said in February that they are collaborating to develop automated driving technologies. 

Toyota AI Ventures include investment in 19 startups since its launch in 2017- including Nauto, autonomous shuttle company May Mobility, social companion cognitive AI Startup Intuition Robotics and Joby Aviation, the electric vertical takeoff and landing passenger aircraft service.

Not to be left behind in the race Renault too announced its vision of the future of urban delivery in 2030 with the electric, autonomous and connected Renault EZ-PRO concept car which will be experimented with various professionals in Europe to collect data usage in order to better understand their needs associated with daily delivery in urban areas. Renault EZ-FLEX is an experimental electric and connected LCV that is both compact and agile. It was created and designed for sustainable mobility and delivery efficiency in urban areas and is apt for last mile deliveries. It is equipped with sensors to better understand the uses, and the professionals will enrich this data with their feedback during the experiment.

2019 - Renault EZ-FLEX
2019 – Renault EZ-FLEX

The automotive industry is revving up for sure with the major parties investing heavily in new technologies. it will be interesting to see what the future of this market holds for consumers.